---
title: "City Bathing: A Love Letter to Sheffield Part 1"
date: 2020-08-14T13:32:50.737Z
author: Sophie Simmons
tags:
  - Sheffield
---
This morning I sought to refute the idea that it is only rural spaces that can be relaxing and “good for the soul”. Instead, in the brief fifteen minute window I had before work, I took my cup of tea outside to bathe in the glory of England’s sixth biggest city.

I left the confines of the block of flats, took a sharp right and walked back on myself along the wall of the complex. The pitted nature of the yellow stone wall gave away its age. As did the large, carved “infants'' and “girls” in bigger, smoother blocks. The juxtaposition of this old school wall with the apartment complex not yet in its teens pleased me. I passed a man pruning bee balm and blackberry brambles and we exchanged a quick “good morning”. I continued along the wall until I was underneath the living room windows of my own flat - like most things in Sheffield my home is on a hill, so I now stood level with what would be my basement, if I had one. I leaned against the sandstone wall, warmed by the hours old sun, drank my first devastatingly hot sip of tea and surveyed the scene before me.

Being that I was on a hill, it stood to reason that the ground should slope away before me. That it did at such an aggressive angle just gave me more to look at. In my vertiginous foreground was a lush green carpet of grass, framed by trees, which dipped down hard to a road. It was not a busy road, or a residential one, just a utilitarian road to sidle cars and people from Upperthorpe uphill to sort-of Walkley. The road that connected to it like the top rung of a T however, was very busy, and the whisper of tyres over it’s smooth new surface (thanks council!) was a frequent addition to the soundscape I observed. The morning’s noise was unceasing, and for the most part made up of traffic sounds. The occasional unseen tram in the valley rumbled along its tracks, cars thrummed along the ring road and the man with his secateurs provided the high notes. There were nature sounds too though, if you listened hard enough. Bees, perhaps sensing that their balm flowers were not long for this world, buzzed nearby and birds called - presumably to each other about bird things.

Unseen in the distance was the River Don and the valley it had carved out for itself.  On the other side of the river and directly opposite me, the landscape swelled up like a wave just before it crests, presenting more greenery as a balm to my early-morning eyes. Now, if you didn’t already know, it would be very hard to believe that the picturesque hill I was looking at is actually part-landfill site and part-abandoned ski slope. From here the landfill site looks like a wide swathe of grassland that has mercifully evaded the clutches of the developers. Although I did visit on a University trip once and can confirm that it is not so pleasant up close, they do have an onsite bird of prey to chase away seagulls so that’s pretty cool. The ski slope has suffered 3 arson attempts at the last count and now when you walk there metal grilles and melted plastic flooring carpet the area. But nature is taking back control as she always does and trees and shrubs are already thriving in the ruins of our recreation.

I looked, I listened and I finished my tea all the while comforted by the beauty that erupts from even the most mundane of planning decisions. The triangular wedges of green between roads, the red brick terraces staggering downhill, the distant glimpse of the city centre and its penchant for a colourful tower block. The city existed in a harmonious mish-mash of materials, ages and spaces that, for a brief 15 minutes, soothed my eyes and my mind and made me fall in love with it just a little bit more.